Erlang
Erlang is a development platform for Erlang is a language for building realtime systems that are very scalable and require high avalilability. (accessible at any time)

FreeBSD
when it comes to raw performance, especially in regards to system load per packet, no other operating system can beat FreeBSD. 

Ejabberd
it handles the message routing, deliverability, and general instant messaging aspects of the app. Features of Ejabberd include:
One-on-one messaging
Group chat
Storing and forwarding offline messages
Contact list and presence

Mnesia
To store data and temporary messages, WhatsApp uses an Erlang-based, distributed DBMS (Database Management System) called Mnesia. 
This DBMS provides benefits that many traditional databases.

BEAM
BEAM, short for “Bogdan’s Erlang Abstract Machine”, is a virtual machine that compiles and executes Erlang source code. 

YAWS (Yet Another Web Server) 
is an Erlang-based web server that's ideal for dynamic content. WhatsApp uses YAWS for storing multimedia data. Through the use of this technology,
WhatsApp is able to send and receive multimedia data across billions of devices—in near real time.

Conclusion
The easiest way to get a full understanding of WhatsApp’s architecture design is, of course, through a WhatsApp architecture diagram.

Starting from the left side we have multiple different clients (mobile and web apps), each of which hosts a local SQLite database for storing conversations. 

The clients use HTTP WebSockets to send and retrieve multimedia data like images and videos from the YAWS web server. But, as you can see, 
XMPP is used to actually send those files and other messages to other users.

When an XMPP message is sent, it goes through the series of steps depicted above. First, it gets sent to WhatsApp’s custom Ejabberd server which runs on BEAM and FreeBSD.
 The Ejabberd server saves the message in a Mnesia database table where it gets put into a queue. When the receiving user opens the app, thereby reconnecting to the socket, 
the message in the queue gets routed through the Ejabberd server and delivered to the recipient. Once successful delivery can be confirmed,
 the message gets deleted from the Mnesia database.